Notes on the design of menu.gb

Didrik Madheden has documented the programming of the memory controller of the
cartridge (and previous models). See http://blog.gg8.se/gameboyprojects/week09/EMS_FAQ.txt
Checkout also bootstrap.asm.

The EMS cartridge has 8 MB (64 MBit) of flash memory divided into two pages. At
boot, the EMS hardware selects the first page (the default) or the second page
(when the user quickly turn off and turn on the Game Boy).

The Game Boy sees the page as a ROM of 4 MB. The other page is not accessible.
The page is divided in 256 banks of 16 KB.

The menu software sits at offset 0 of the page (bank 0 and 1). The Game Boy run
mode (Compatibility mode, Color Game Boy features, Super Game Boy features) and
the palette (in Compatibility mode on a Game Boy Color) will be set according to
the header of the menu ROM and, of course, depending of the capabilities of the
type of Game Boy the software is running on.

Operation
  1) Scan the page for ROMs
     - The scan starts at bank 2 (offset 0x8000) to skip the menu. It is thus
       assumed that the menu size is 32 KB.
     - Check for the presence of a ROM header. A ROM header is valid if the ROM
       could be booted by the Game Boy if it was in an independent cartridge,
       i.e. the Nintendo Logo and the header checksum must be correct.
     - The size code must be valid and represent a size of a power of two less
       or equal to 2 MB.
     - If no valid header was found or the code size was incorrect, continue
       the scan to the next offset multiple of 32 KB (i.e. skip two banks).
     - The title is taken from the 16 chars of the title field of the header.
       The charset used is Nintendo ASCII: ASCII characters 32 to 95 with 92
       being the Yen symbol instead of the backslash. Characters outside the
       range 32-95 are replaced by a space. NUL characters (0) does not indicate
       the end of a string. The bit 7 of the last character of the title is used
       as a flag to enable or disable Game Boy Color features. If this bit is
       set, the last character will be replaced by a space. Leading spaces are
       preserved. Nintendo documents that it is possible to store a
       four-character game code in the title. If present, the game code will be
       shown.
     - The title and the first bank number are inserted in a list. 
     - Continue the scan until the end of the page (bank 255). Skip the entire
       ROM if a ROM was found and the size code was correct and the size was a
       power of two. Otherwise skip 2 banks (32 KB), the minimal size of a ROM.
  2) Sort the list of ROM by title in ASCII order (spaces are signicant). The
     sort algorithm used is not stable so if multiple ROMs have the same name,
     the display order will not be guaranted.
  3) Display the menu
  4) Bootstrap the choosen ROM.
