menu.gb is a menu software for the 64 MBit "GB USB Smart Card" from EMS

"menu.gb" was written by Christophe Staiesse.
Refer to the file "LICENSE" for information on licensing terms of this software.

Description
   This program is meant to be installed on a flash cartridge for Game Boy by a
   flashing software, usualy along with several Game Boy ROM images. At
   startup, the program scans the cartridge for ROM images and presents a menu
   to the user allowing him to choose an image to launch.

   It has been designed for the 64 MBit "GB USB Smart Card" by EMS. Other
   models are not currently supported.

Compilation
   Prerequisite:
     - A Unix-like environment (a Bourne shell, awk, sed, ...)
     - RGBDS (Rednex GameBoy Development System) that you can find at:
         https://github.com/bentley/rgbds

   Type "make". This will generate a 32 KB ROM image "menu.gb" with the
   Game Boy Color and Super Game Boy enhancement flags disabled and with
   "GB16M" as the title. The title can be changed by specifying the MENUTITLE
   variable when invoking make. 

Testing
   Type "make tests". This will generate test image files with instructions for
   testing. You can flash a test image on a real flash cartridge or launch
   them on a Game Boy emulator supporting EMS cartridge images.

   BGB (http://bgb.bircd.org) is an emulator for Windows (but it works well
   with Wine) that supports EMS cartridge images. The title must be "GB16M"
   (the default).

   You can use ems-flasher (http://lacklustre.net/projects/ems-flasher/) to
   flash the images on a real cartridge. Each test image is a full page (4 MB)
   so that all ROMs previously present on the cartridge are overwritten.

Installation
   The flashing software must copy the menu ROM (menu.gb) at the beginning of
   the page, at offset 0.

   The Game Boy run mode (Compatibility mode, Color Game Boy features,
   Super Game Boy features) and the palette (in Compatibility mode on a
   Game Boy Color) will be set according to the header of the menu ROM and,
   of course, depending of the capabilities of the type of Game Boy the
   software is running on. The headers of other ROMs have no influence on this.

   If the Game Boy models on which the cartridge will be used are not known, a
   page should contain only ROMs with identical settings.

   Each ROM must be copied at an offset that is aligned to its size. This is
   due to how bank selection works with the EMS' cartridge.

   The menu only supports ROMs whose size is a power of two.
